- (Narrator)
Frequent feedback I receive from learners
about creating your first Spring Boot RESTful Microservice,
was that it lacked Unit tests, I couldn't agree more.
The goal of this course was to introduce
several Spring frameworks, not to test them.
However, it was difficult to shake that developer shame.
Because I truly believe that,
"Code isn't code unless it has code to test the code."
So it is with great satisfaction,
and sense of redemption that I present TESTS.
I'm assuming you already know how to create
and configure JUnit tests with Spring,
but if not I suggest you check out Shana Smith's
" Spring: Test-Driven Development with Junit"
in the learning library.
A Unit test will test a class in isolation,
meaning to test only the code in the class,
not its dependencies
An integration test will invoke not just the class,
but also its underlying dependencies.
In the exercise files of this chapter,
there are several Unit tests,
but I want to focus on testing Tour Rating Service
as a Unit test, and an integration test.
Tour Rating Service is a Spring Service component
that is auto-wired with Tour Rating Repository,
and Tour Repository.
How do we test just the code and Tour Rating Service
and not those repositories.
Mockito to the rescue!
Mokito is a mocking framework for Unit tests in Java.
We use it to stub out
and override the default behavior of a class.
Our application automatically includes
the Mokito library as part of Spring Boot starter test.
So here we are in Tour Rating Service test.
First we set up the Mockito Junit runner
as the test runner,
next we tell Mockito
to instantiate a mocked version
of Tour Repository, and Tour Rating Repository,
and inject them into the service.
The service interacts with Tour, and Tour Rating objects,
so we have mocks of them too.
So, that sets up the mock objects
that will make the Java compiler happy,
but what about runtime?
The when, then, return Mockito static method
overrides the normal behavior of a method that returns data.
Some of the when, then, returns
are used in more than one test method,
so we collect those in a setup method,
which is invoked before each test.
The first set of tests,
verify the return value of service methods.
In "Look Up Rating by ID look up all,
and look up ratings method,
we test the expected response with the actual response.
So, lets run this "Look Up Rating by ID" test.
How about service methods that return void?
The next set of tests do just that.
They verify delete, rate many, update, and update some.
Let's run the "Delete" test.
So this verifies that
when we called the service.delete method
that the Tour Rating Repository mock delete method
is invoked.
The test not only verifies that a dependency was invoked,
but also checks the perameters passed
in the dependency method.
In "Create New"
we need to check that a new Tour rating is instantiated,
and that the proper values
are set in the Tour rating upon resistance.
So in create new we create a "Capture",
which is we expect the Tour rating return value
within a method, so we invoke the "service.create new",
we verify that the repository mock save method is called,
and then, afterwards we, using the Tour rating capture,
verify the values actually passed into the create method.
Let's run that.
Works!
Now let's move on to an integration test,
which actually invokes the dependencies.
I'm going to open Tour rating service integration test.
Tour rating service integration test
runs in the Spring container,
so we can auto-wire Tour Rating Service,
and know that the Tour Rating Repository
and Tour Repository are also instantiated and injected.
"Add Spring Boot Test" will
actually start the explorecali @Spring Boot application,
which creates the data source, and run the "schema.sql"
and "data.sql" scripts.
"@Transactional" instructs all transactions
to be rolled back after the test completes.
So, we can actually store something in the database,
look it up, and erase it all within a test.
Let's look at the Delete test.
First, let's launch the Happy Path test, and run that.
So, in Happy Path, we see...
oh let's try to move up the console, it's actually starting.
It actually starts the container and then runs a test,
it deletes a Tour, and then finishes,
and then, at the end
that tour no longer exists in the database,
but then just because we have transactional
it will be existing again.
Now let's test the UnHappy Path,
where we expect no such element exception to be thrown.
Again, starting the time-cap as part of the test,
and it passes.
I fell much better now that these tests are in place,
but we still need to test the rest controller APIs.
We'll cover that in the next video.